[Noel] In the beginning,
there were 12.
Now, there are three.
Please don't collapse. Please don't
collapse. Please don't collapse.
Finalists, please pick up your gingham
covered trays and come with us.
[Rahul laughs]
What?
[theme music playing]
[Ruby] Oh, right let's do this.
[Rahul] Anyway, yeah.
[Ruby] Good luck.
[Kim-Joy] Good luck guys.
[Rahul] This is very, very surreal.
Never thought I would come that far.
I am definitely very, very, very nervous.
Last night I started thinking, "Oh what
if I won it? That would be amazing."
I would love to win it.
[Ruby] A few lows, a few highs.
Can it get any higher? I don't know.
I mean, I'm praying it can
but Kim-Joy and Rahul are phenomenal.
So to be able to still be here standing
my ground and be part of the final three
I just feel so lucky.
[Sandi] Three remaining bakers.
Three final challenges
before one is crowned the winner.
Congratulations Finalists.
Doesn't that sound great?
Today the judges would love you to make
two batches of beautifully iced doughnuts.
Six filled doughnuts
and six ring doughnuts.
As this is an iced doughnut challenge
the judges are looking for impressive
icing technique and beautiful decoration.
Your batches should be
consistent in shape, size and finish,
like me and Sandi.
You have three hours.
[Sandi] On your marks...
[Noel] Get set...
[Sandi] Bake.
[Kim-Joy] The final has started.
[Rahul] The more I think about it,
the more I stress about it.
It's a bit tense but I'm just gonna do
what I need to do, just crack on.
It's the final and the Signature challenge
is doughnuts, one of my favourite things.
It's actually quite difficult
to make properly.
We're looking for
an aerated texture inside,
beautiful and golden brown on the outside
and flavours that pack a punch.
Keep it simple but keep it perfect.
[Prue] The fascinating thing
about this final
is that all of our bakers have won
Star Baker twice.
So it's a totally level playing field,
there's nobody who's out front,
it's genuinely a fantastic competition
for a final.
Good morning, Rahul.
[Sandi] Hi, finalist.
[laughs]
So, we're on doughnuts.
And when you cut into a doughnut
what are we looking for?
Very good question, I never had doughnut
in my life before I made this challenge.
[Sandi] Really?
[Rahul] No.
Is there no equivalent in India
in cooking?
No. And here I have seen doughnut
but I feel it would just look like
a deep-fried bread, I'm not gonna eat it.
[Noel] Rahul's unique take
on doughnuts will combine
a mango crème patissière filling
with a paisley royal icing decoration.
His ring doughnuts will be flavoured with
spiced orange and a decoration on top,
which is sure to be a mouthful.
I'm going to do it like a wreath,
so I'm going to cover it
with a buttercream on the top.
Buttercream?
-Buttercream?
-[groans]
So, when you pick it up to eat it?
-Uh, yeah.
-[Sandi] Sounds a messy business.
I think you two are gonna need
a knife and fork.
Well, good luck, Rahul.
It's the final, no pressure.
[sighs]
[Rahul] Ah. It's making me
more nervous now.
[Noel] Kim-Joy is feeling
less frightened by her doughnuts.
I've made doughnuts before.
I think, yeah, I did quite enjoy it.
Doing well in the Signature will
definitely be a good start, so we'll see.
[Sandi] Both of Kim-Joy's doughnuts
will be made with
the same lemon-flavoured dough.
Her filled doughnuts will contain
an amaretto crème diplomat
topped with an orange glaze.
I'm doing one flavoured dough
for both doughnuts,
just 'cause
there isn't a whole lot of time.
[Ruby] This is my cinnamon dough.
[Noel] Ruby has decided
to make life twice as hard.
I'm making two different doughs,
so I'm proving for about 35 minutes each.
I think you kinda have to push yourself.
I mean, what's the point in coming all
the way to the final and just coasting?
[Noel] Ruby's cinnamon dough
will be filled with dulce de leche crème
and her cardamom ring doughnuts
will be decorated with
a white chocolate glaze on top.
She's hoping practice makes perfect.
[Ruby] I've practised doughnuts
about five times this week.
Did you take the week off work?
You said you were going to.
I did, yeah. And I've never been
more exhausted in my life.
[laughs]
You look so organised,
I'm really impressed. So, good luck.
-[Sandi] You got this. You got this.
-Good façade.
-Good luck in the final.
-Thank you very much.
Thank you.
[Ruby] I do wanna prove to myself
that I can do it.
Because it's one thing my family saying,
oh that's delicious.
They're gonna say that, they have to.
Um, well they don't actually, they don't
always say that, they can be quite cruel.
-Look at you.
-I know, look at my two front teeth...
Look like a little goofy, innit?
[laughing]
[Ruby] Mum!
[Sandi] Ruby's determination has shone
through from an early age.
She's always wanted to be the best
at what she does,
whether it's been sport,
whether it's been academically.
Hard-working pupil, displaying the energy
and determination to succeed.
She goes to work, comes back
and straight away she's baking
and she'll be in that kitchen
until gone midnight.
[Sonya] You know she's had some weeks
where she hasn't done so great.
But I think now she's really starting
to believe, you know what, I want this.
[Kelly] She will show the whole world
what she's capable of doing.
I will be the proudest mum in the world.
Simmer, come on.
About to make my dulce de leche.
I need to let that sit so the mixture
inside can get really nice, rich.
[Sandi] While the bakers' dough
is proving...
It's basically milk and mango puree.
[Sandi] ...the race is on
to make their fillings.
I'm adding almond liqueur.
I like cooking with alcohol,
gives things a bit of a kick.
Oh there you go, lovely.
That's actually perfect.
That's what... exactly what I wanted.
[Sandi] Is anybody coming
for the final for you?
[Rahul] Yeah. I don't really have
my family here.
But David and Liz, who are like my family
here, they actually inspired me.
David pushed me that I need to apply.
I think we all need friends
like that, don't we?
Yeah, true. Without them, it's almost
impossible for me to do anything here.
[Rahul] This is me when I was about
nine years old probably.
-Oh right, so you were at the Taj.
-So this is when we would visit
The Taj Mahal, yes.
But you're not even smiling there,
are you?
[Noel] David and his wife Liz
met Rahul through work
and took him under their wing
after he moved from India eight years ago.
[Liz] I think it must be really hard
for him to have arrived in this country
and be on your own.
I think it's a very,
very hard thing to do.
I think David actually said to him,
look, why don't you start baking?
[David] To actually pick up
the cuisine of a new country
and get to a level where
he's one of the top three
amateur bakers in the country is,
is just phenomenal.
Rahul, we are very proud.
God will be with you
and he will do good for you.
He is family. And I know he sees us
as his family in, sort, of Sheffield.
I think my life would be a lot poorer
if I hadn't met Rahul.
I'm slightly behind my schedule,
but it might be recoverable.
Bakers, you are halfway through
your doughnut challenge.
Halfway through.
[Kim-Joy] It's done its best prove. So now
I need to do stamp out the doughnuts.
[Sandi] Paul and Prue are expecting
doughnuts
that are uniform in shape and size.
[Ruby] I'm just shaping them
like a bread roll.
[Sandi] And identical doughnuts
will never be more crucial
when it comes to frying.
[Kim-Joy] I am being precise
'cause if they all weigh 50 grams
then I know they'll be cooked
in the middle.
[Noel] For our finalists...
[Ruby] Just to give them the best chance,
I'm using a proving drawer today.
[Noel] ...precision is about to become
a lot more important.
Chocolate rainbows.
[Noel] As they have to make not one,
but two sets of exquisite decoration.
[Rahul] They're not going to like
the buttercream one,
maybe I shouldn't have done that.
[Kim-Joy] I love the detail.
I definitely think detail's my strong bit.
I've chosen bees 'cause Nabil, my partner,
my nickname for him is actually Bee.
So, like, he's a bee. Bzzz.
[laughs]
[Nabil] You're so cute, aren't ya?
-Yeah. That's me in a pink dress.
-Yeah.
[Sandi] Kim-Joy and Nabil met four
years ago at a board-gaming club.
It was perfect meeting Kim-Joy
because she's into her board games,
she's into baking.
It's, it's like heaven, it's like having
a bakery in your house, like constantly.
She's like a mad artist,
she'll be throwing stuff together,
the next minute you know,
she's just created this incredible,
beautiful piece of art.
[EJ] Sometimes when she bakes something
I actually wanna have it
as an ornament around the house
instead of eating it.
But I am so proud of what she's done.
I've never seen her take onto it
like this before.
Getting to the final is the best thing
that's ever happened to her,
but to actually win it,
that would be just something else.
I have no doubt,
I think she's gonna do it.
[Kim-Joy] Marks out of ten.
-Ten. Handshake.
-Wow.
I like these tiny bees, they look great.
Look, look, oh my God, look!
-[Kim-Joy] Oh my God!
-You've blown that guy's mind.
Well what's he doing? He's wiggling his...
-Do you think they're getting sexy?
-Maybe. I think they might be.
Sexy time.
[laughing]
Wow. That guys gonna be embarrassed
when he gets back to the hive.
-Bakers, you have...
-[Noel] One hour left. One hour.
[Ruby] I'll see what they're like.
[Kim-Joy] These are definitely ready.
[Ruby] I will get cracking with frying.
[Noel] To achieve a doughnut
that is crispy golden on the outside
while remaining beautifully soft
on the inside
the bakers need to ensure the oil
is at the perfect temperature for frying.
It's always the really
nerve-wracking part.
[Noel] Too low and the doughnuts
will end up oily and dense.
[Ruby] One hundred and eighty
is my magic number.
[Noel] Too high and the outside
will be burnt
before they can cook
through to the middle.
[Ruby] Right, it's getting there.
[Rahul] That's fine, it's there.
And I'm putting the doughnuts in.
[Ruby] Good luck.
I'm quite worried.
[Ruby] I go for two and a half minutes
and they seem to be cooked.
The last thing you want is like raw dough.
[Kim-Joy] Two minutes on each side.
If they're raw in the middle,
it's gonna be the worst thing ever.
[Ruby] About to flip. Oh, flip then.
Come on, you. Oh, please, please,
please, please don't do that with me.
Oh, sugar puff. Oh start.
Ooh. I did not put the timer on.
Oh, I need a second timer.
Just get this second lot in.
[Kim-Joy] I did 'em 45 seconds. 40, 45...
[Sandi] Is there extra stress today?
Pretty normal stress, stress.
You know Rahul.
-[Sandi] Yes, sure.
-So just like a Rahul stress.
No, no, no, no, no. Don't do that.
He's got a massive air bubble.
Do I just pop it?
[Kim-Joy] Two doughnuts coming out.
Uh, they're a bit paler than normal.
Maybe the oil's not as hot.
[Rahul] Now, I think these should be done
by now.
This is probably more than done.
This is burnt actually.
No, no, no, no, no.
[Kim-Joy] That one out.
I think these are a bit darker.
He's a bit misshapen, isn't he?
Don't tell them this.
Oh, no. I just get carried away,
get this over.
Oh no, no, no, no, no.
[Sandi] Bakers, you have...
Fifteen minutes left.
[Kim-Joy] I'm gonna fill these guys.
I'm just filling in my dulce de leche.
I'm weighing because I want
the same quantity in each one.
[Rahul] I quite like doughnut with lots
of filling in. Is it actually filling?
Did I put filling in that one?
I've forgotten which one
I've put these into now.
[Kim-Joy] Oh, that one's a heavy one.
[Rahul] Is it actually working?
Oh no, no, no, no, no.
This is such a big mess.
[Noel] You've got mango on
your wrist and on your collar.
Your wife's gonna think you've been
having an affair with a mango.
No, I don't think I would be having
a fruity affair.
[laughing]
[Kim-Joy] It's a lemon glaze.
Tricky thing is
getting the right thickness.
[Ruby] That is just white chocolate.
They're going to hate it.
Probably going to look like
a cake rather than a doughnut.
Bakers, you have one minute.
Huh?
[Rahul] You've got to be kidding me.
I need to start doing the other ones.
Oh, stop it. They're a bit drippy.
[Kim-Joy] I hope the judges will love
my decoration.
[Rahul] I'm going to be really pushed
for time, as usual.
[Ruby] Ah, my hands are way too shaky.
[Rahul] Not going very well.
Not going very well.
Ooh, come on.
I'm done. Finalist-worthy doughnuts.
[Ruby] Urgh, drip, drip, drip.
Bakers, your time is up. Please place your
doughnuts at the end of your stations.
Final Signature done.
Whatever happens happens.
Happens.
[Noel] It's judgement time for
the bakers' last Signature challenge.
-Hello, Kim-Joy.
-Hi, Kim-Joy.
The ring doughnuts are very un-uniform.
That doughnut there is quite dark.
And then this one here is quite light.
So there's a little bit
of inconsistency in this.
We'll start on the ring doughnut.
The shape of its pretty good,
it's nice and round.
And as always with Kim-Joy
the decoration is very delicate...
[Paul] It is.
[Prue] ...carefully done.
[Paul] Nice texture inside.
[Prue] Hmm, nice and light.
Hmm, very nice and lemony.
[Paul] It works out as a doughnut.
It's got a nice colour,
it's got a great texture
and it's got a great flavour.
Let's have a look at one of these.
Oh wow, these are heavy,
you've got a lot of filling in there.
[Prue] This is the one
with the almond liqueur?
Yes.
[Paul] Lots of filling.
Hmm, very almondy.
It's a great flavour.
-[Prue] It really is a lovely flavour.
-Ah.
And you've got it just right
'cause quarter of a teaspoon more,
almond liqueur
and it would've been too much.
-Thank you, Kim-Joy.
-I might I come back and eat that.
You're welcome.
[laughing]
Great designs on the top.
I think the decoration is very clever.
But it's got a little bit of dripping
round the ring doughnuts.
Let's have a look at these.
It's got a nice texture inside.
-Yeah.
-It's light.
[chuckles]
Because you've used the chocolate
you've got all that.
[Ruby] It's, it's very sticky.
And I'm not sure that
that's the right way to go.
-[Prue] The basic doughnut is excellent.
-Yeah.
You've just spoilt it a bit
with too sweet, too sticky topping.
Let's have a look at the, the filled.
These are under filled.
It's a bit boring.
-[Ruby] Right, okay.
-You needed lots of that filling in there.
But if you did that you really would need
a lighter icing
-because how much sugar can you get?
-So much sugar, isn't it? Yeah.
-Thank you, Ruby.
-Thank you very much.
Oh, I don't even think I filled that one.
Rahul, I think the colours
are absolutely amazing.
I mean, they have such personality.
Slightly over decorated for a ring
doughnut? I dunno, probably.
-[Rahul] Probably, yeah.
-It depends what it's gonna bring
to the flavour.
It's like a doughnut you'd get
at a funeral and that makes me happy.
[laughs]
-Looks a tad on the dark side...
-[Rahul] Yes.
...a bit oily.
I think overall
your texture is a little bit tight.
I think it's under proved.
My issue is there's far too much
buttercream on there.
You do get that orange flavour
but we're tasting butter.
The last thing I wanna do when I'm eating
a doughnut is to taste butter.
But let's have a look at one of these.
One thing I do like is the height
you've got off your filled doughnuts,
they're massive.
[Rahul] Oh, it's too much filling.
[Prue] Oh my goodness. That is plenty.
That texture's much better,
lighter than the first one.
And I do like that mango filling.
It's like a little mango bomb,
'cause it is absolutely...
-[Prue] Stuffed.
-Thank you very much, Rahul.
-Thanks, Rahul.
-Thanks a lot.
Can you lay some of those on my gravestone
when I die?
Oh no, don't say that.
I knew it was too much icing.
I do agree with their feedback totally.
Dear me. It's not great but hey, hey,
what it is, it is now.
Wasn't the best of starts.
I never like making it easy.
Just gonna keep on going, keep positive
and focus on the next challenge.
They loved the flavours
and I think Prue seemed to really like it.
It's my last chance to win a Technical
which would be lovely,
but I'm not gonna put
any pressure on myself.
[bleating]
[Sandi] For our three finalists...
[Ruby] It is hot.
[Sandi] ...the temperature's about
to go up a notch.
Hello bakers, welcome back to the tent
to your last ever Technical challenge,
which today has been set for you
by the lovely Paul. Any words of advice?
Make good use of your heat source.
Well that's pretty good advice
in any kitchen setting I would imagine.
Right, off you two go.
For your Technical challenge today,
first thing I have to tell you
is that your ovens are out of bounds
and so too are your workbenches
because we are going outside.
Please pick up your gingham-covered trays
and come with us.
[Rahul laughs]
What?
[Noel] In your own time.
[Ruby] This is cruel.
[Sandi] Out you come.
[Kim-Joy] Oh this is fun.
[Sandi] Come on, Rahul.
[Ruby] Thank you.
[Rahul] It's heavy.
[Ruby] Okay. I have no idea
what is going on.
[Kim-Joy] Oh, there's a fire.
[Ruby] Interesting. Right.
What?
So today, for your Technical challenge
Paul would like you to bake six pitta
breads on the campfire in front of you.
And he wants you to serve three dips
of baba ganoush,
a smoked garlic salsa verde
and a burnt pepper salsa.
-Urgh.
-You have 90 minutes.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake.
[Noel] Like with any other
Technical challenge,
the bakers have been given exactly
the same ingredients
and pared-down recipe.
Oh, okay.
Crazy.
[Noel] But this time they won't have
their normal ovens, but an open fire...
I've never really cooked in a fire before.
Why would I do that?
People would think I've gone mad.
[Noel] ...which they'll need
to manage themselves.
[Ruby] I have no idea what I'm doing.
I just don't know.
Bear Grylls eat your heart out.
So Paul, you have asked the bakers
for campfire pitta bread.
[Paul] We've never done anything
like this before.
This technique of baking bread
on a hot stone
has been around for thousands of years.
I think it's a great challenge
for 'em for the final.
Now, the character of a pitta bread
is a pocket.
That is critical on this challenge.
If you make a good pitta bread, it puffs
up like a balloon when it's cooking.
[Paul] If the temperature
of the slate gets too hot
it kills the yeast and it'll actually bake
a bit like a flatbread
and will not get the pocket.
Now, the other element is the three dips.
We've given them
lots of ingredients to play with
but it's up to them
to come up with something
that goes really well
with the pitta bread.
You can taste the roasted aubergine, hmm.
Fantastic. I expect they never have
come across anything like this before.
They're probably gonna get
a little bit hot under the collar,
-because working over that stove itself...
-Maybe that.
...the temperature is going to be extreme.
I'm actually cooking alive, I feel like.
For the pitta make dough
and leave to prove.
Pitta would have to be pretty wet.
I'm trying to remember when I last made
pitta bread. I can't remember.
I've made pitta bread before
but it was quite a while ago.
Knead it till it's nice and elastic.
It's wholemeal flour, so I'm thinking
I still need to work it quite a bit.
I'm trying to do the windowpane test.
It's not working
so it definitely need a little bit more.
Another minute. Oh, my God.
My eyebrows are gonna be
running down the side of my face.
[Noel] I've been to hell,
it's similar to this.
This feels like hell.
Maybe you've died
and this is just you in hell.
[Ruby] Lovely. Thanks for that.
[Kim-Joy] I think this is done.
[Ruby] Right, I'm just gonna
let it sit now.
[Kim-Joy] I'll give it 30 minutes.
Ouch. I will leave it here
next to the fire.
Whilst the dough is proving
make your three dips.
To make the three dips make sure the logs
are burnt down so there is little flame.
Burnt down.
I don't know. There is flames there.
Just poke it a little bit.
That's what you do, isn't it?
[Rahul] Need to put some coal on it,
that's a good idea.
So no flame, good.
So add the vegetables to log and roast
until cooked through and blackened.
To the logs.
So do you just add the veg whole?
I feel like I'm just doing really bad. Ah.
[Ruby] Whoo!
[Kim-Joy] Ha.
[Rahul] The fire is not turning down,
it is going up.
I don't like what I'm doing.
I have no idea why I'm doing it.
Get on there. Oh get on there.
It doesn't say how long to cook it for,
it just says blacken them.
Oh for goodness sake.
It's just rolling off the fire.
Is it supposed to sit straight
on the fire?
Isn't it?
I need help. Am I doing it right?
We can't really tell you that, Rahul.
[sighs] Thanks.
Whoops.
Darling, you look panicked.
I don't know what I'm doing.
I just hoped putting
some charcoal would help
but I feel like maybe
that's not a good idea.
[Sandi] It's not so much fire
over that side.
Yeah, I think I'm gonna put it there.
They are actually exploding,
they are going to explode.
I might go before I hit by a pepper.
Bakers, you have one hour left.
-Come on, then.
-Let's go.
[Sandi] Ah, right in the face.
I mean that looks blackened.
That skin is starting to come off.
[Kim-Joy] Roughly peel and chop
and then combine with
the rest of the ingredients.
It smells amazing. Hmm, tastes good.
One dip down. For the baba ganoush,
combine the flesh of the aubergine
with garlic with the other ingredients.
I don't like baba ganoush.
I don't know how to get it smooth
without a masher.
Maybe I just mush it in my hands.
[Ruby] Piping hot. Hot.
What you saying, good or bad?
Well it's better with a little bit
of lemon juice, I wouldn't still eat it.
[Ruby] On my smoked salsa verde.
Roast the garlic, squeeze the flesh out,
chop up all the herbs and finish
the remaining ingredients.
Oh, my God! Where's my garlic?
Oh, my goodness gracious me.
[Noel] But they're supposed to be
burnt, aren't they?
-Yeah, I know but this is like...
-Burnt, burnt.
It's actually on fire.
Two tablespoons of cider. Oh.
Quickly, quickly, quickly.
I think some of this liquid's gotta go.
Bakers, you have half an hour.
Oh my God! I need to shape
the bread dough now.
Shape your dough in six equal pittas.
[Ruby] It's as equal as it's gonna get.
Make sure that they're thin enough.
Two more, two more.
I mean, it's not really a good shape.
I made them too thick.
Lightly spray each pitta with water
on one side topped with za'atar.
[Ruby grunting]
[Ruby] I put the za'atar mix
in the salsa verde.
How will you cook the pitta?
On that slate I guess.
[Sandi] To achieve the perfect
puffed up pitta bread...
Goodness gracious.
[Sandi] ...the bakers will need
to heat their slates
to exactly the right temperature.
Okay, I don't know what that did.
I'm not sure,
it's probably not hot enough.
[Sandi] But heat it too much
and it will instantly kill the yeast,
then the pitta breads won't rise.
I don't know what I'm doing.
[Ruby] That's hot.
Cook the pitta on a slate,
put the za'atar side down first.
Oh, did it wrong. Uh-oh, Uh-oh.
Please puff.
Gonna let it puff up a little bit.
It's not really happening.
It's not really puffing much, is it?
It's got little bubbles,
but it's nowhere near.
There's not gonna be
the pocket, that's it.
I think this is too hot.
I don't think anybody's are puffing.
[Ruby] It needs to turn.
Oh, God.
That is not a good pitta.
I think that pitta's a write-off.
Uh-oh. Oh no, great.
Oh, goodness gracious.
I'll have to hide that one.
Maybe I can squidge an extra one out.
Turn this into three.
Let's just try again.
Bakers, you got five minutes left.
Oh, get on the slate.
This one is just like as flat as a shoe.
Just not gonna happen, is it?
[Kim-Joy] Oh dear. It's an awful pitta.
Oh no, that is completely burnt. Oh.
That is bad. How much damage control
can I do here?
[Kim-Joy] Oh.
[Rahul] It's just disgraceful again.
[Ruby] If I peel that off,
I might just cook it again.
Wish I can scrape off the burnt bits.
I better just not come tomorrow.
[Ruby] Gonna try that again.
[Kim-Joy] The final one.
So I can bin that one.
[Rahul] It's just utter disgrace of pitta.
Bakers, your time is up.
I mean, this is diabolical.
Had a bit of a mare.
Please bring your pitta breads
and place them behind the photographs
on the table inside the tent.
Let's also get out of the sun.
[Ruby] I will never complain about
that heat in that tent, ever again.
[Noel] Prue and Paul are expecting six
beautifully baked pitta breads
with a trademark pocket,
served with three fire-roasted dips.
They'll have no idea whose is whose.
Shall we start with this one over here?
Bit charred on some of the places here.
They are baked, but they are
more of a flatbread than a pitta.
This is the flamed pepper.
Hmm, that's got a kick to it.
What do you think about the baba ganoush?
Charry aubergine. Lovely.
[Paul] The texture's really nice
on that actually.
[Paul] Now moving on to number two.
This is actually a much better shape.
They are thinner.
You can see a slight envelope in there.
[Prue] But it's very charred
and the za'atar's burnt.
[Paul] Right. Baba ganoush.
-That's got a nice flavour.
-Salsa verde.
Wow. That's got a nice kick.
Okay, moving onto number three.
This is the thickest and the smallest.
Needs to be much thinner than this.
Let's try these dips.
[Prue] It's not very salsa verde,
it's got za'atar in it as well, hasn't it?
Hmm. That one piece just stabbed me
in the mouth. [laughs]
[Paul] Pepper.
Hmm. Lovely.
[Paul] It's a nice blend.
Okay, it's gonna be quite tricky.
[Sandi] Who has triumphed
in the final Technical challenge?
In third spot, this one.
Ruby, these weren't too bad but the big
problem I had was with the breads.
That's fine.
So, in second place we have this one.
Rahul, if this had been a competition
about dips you might've come top, I think.
But your bread was a little
too charred and a bit thick.
Which means, in first place
we have this one.
It's me.
[applause]
Your pittas are much better
but they weren't perfect.
And your dips weren't too bad either.
Well done, Kim-Joy.
You do realise when he says,
they're not too bad
he really means, they're quite good.
That's a compliment.
I won a Technical.
Finally. It's my first one.
I feel like I can sleep well tonight.
I'm not saying I came last, I came third.
It's not been the best day
but I've had to come back against worse.
Trust me, I've still got
a lot to give tomorrow.
Have a good night's sleep,
come tomorrow morning,
have my glass of milk and literally
put my best, put my everything into it.
[Sandi] There is just one
final challenge remaining.
[Rahul] Good luck.
[Ruby] Oh, good luck.
[Sandi] In just a few hours,
at a very special garden party
for family and friends we'll discover
who will win the competition.
Even though Kim-Joy won the Technical
it was so close.
-[Prue] It, it was pretty close.
-There's not really that much in it?
Didn't Kim-Joy do really well
in the Signature as well?
[Paul] Well, they were all pretty
similar in the Signature too.
They worked this hard, been here this long
and it's all down to this last challenge.
-It all comes down to the challenge.
-That's crazy.
[Paul] Someone will always do
something a little bit special today.
I hope it comes down to the baking
and the baking chooses the winner, not us.
-The baking won't do that...
-[Prue] Well, yes.
-...you know that, right?
-It will. It will.
I like the idea that
that might happen but...
-[Paul] I promise you it will.
-It's not that abstract, this show.
[laughing]
-[Paul] I don't...
-And the winner is...
Hang on a second. The baking says...
[laughing]
If they use any of this
I'll be astonished.
[laughing]
Morning bakers, welcome back
to your final challenge.
I think you can feel
the sense of calm in the air.
For your last ever Showstopper challenge
Paul and Prue would love you to create
an incredible landscape dessert.
Your landscape should be a delight
for the senses, visually exciting,
texturally stunning and a taste sensation.
Now, we don't need to remind you,
this is your last chance to shine.
-I think we should remind them though.
-Shall we?
Just to rub it in, yeah.
-It's your last chance to shine.
-[Sandi] This is it guys, yeah. Come on.
You have four and a half hours.
-On your marks...
-[Noel] Get set...
[Sandi] Bake.
The beginning bit is when
I'm usually more stressed.
Yeah, nothing big happening today,
just the final.
I'm extraordinarily excited.
I'm quite nervous too.
I think that this time the concept
is almost as important as the bake.
So we're looking for a landscape
that we're not expecting
and that is perfectly executed.
It needs to have at least
three elements in there.
If it's a cake,
nice and light, full of flavour.
Biscuits, a nice snap.
So all the criteria
it's all happening in this one challenge.
I'm wary about some of them
having such ambitious plans
that they won't finish.
[Paul] It's 32 degrees and rising.
They really have gotta keep their heads.
I have no idea who's gonna win this final.
-Morning, Ruby.
-Hello, Ruby. Your final Showstopper.
My final Showstopper is going to be
a magical landscape.
My three main elements will be a choux
mountain in the background
and then some shortbread hills
and some passionfruit cake.
[Noel] Ruby's passionfruit cakes
will be the hills
overlooking sweeping praline dust pathways
with salted pistachio
brittle stepping stones.
Her rolling shortbread hills
will be flavoured with cardamom
and her towering choux mountain
will be filled with
lemon crème patissière.
Where's the magic?
There'll be two unicorns sat, um,
on top of the cake mounds,
they'll be an isomalt lake
and some little mushrooms.
I can see how excited
Paul is about unicorns.
He's like, hmm, hmm.
[laughs]
[Paul] Good luck, Ruby.
[Ruby] Thank you very much.
-Try your best.
-I will, definitely.
Good luck.
Unicorns appear a lot in baking,
don't they?
-Do they? You're gonna get three...
-Minotaurs, not so much.
[Sandi] Kim-Joy's final Showstopper
will be minotaur free.
But mythology will be at the heart of her
bid to be crowned this year's champion.
So I'm doing the Lost City of Atlantis.
Atlantis because I just like fantasy
and I feel like I live
in a fantasy world anyway.
[Sandi] Atlantis will be built with
a ginger cake and biscuit recipes
that won Kim-Joy Star Baker in spice week.
Waiting to be discovered amongst the ruins
will be a salted caramel filled well
and treasure chest.
Isomalt coral, crushed praline sand
and fondant seahorses.
But there is one ancient mystery
Kim-Joy has yet to solve.
-Do you know any ancient Greeks, Sandi?
-Do I know any ancient Greeks?
-I'm old but not that old.
-[laughs]
I need to know how to write Atlantis
in ancient Greek.
Ah, not a problem. I'll be back.
-Okay.
-[Sandi] Leave that with me.
[Noel] Unlike Kim-Joy, for his last
Showstopper of the competition...
Great start, not working.
[Noel] ...Rahul is headed
for dry land.
It's going to be like a rock garden
because who made the rock gardens?
Mainly Victorian explorers
and they went to different countries,
they liked some plants.
They decide, okay, we're gonna bring
that back to our country
and then they create gardens to put them.
I do kind of relate with that?
Nobody bring me here,
I wanted to come here and that's why
I came to do my PhD but it's very similar.
[Noel] Rahul's blossoming in the UK
will be represented by
multi-coloured buttercream plants,
nestling between
cardamom-filled choux rocks
perched on top of
a two-tier chocolate orange cake
and a lemon joconde mound.
He'll fill a pond with orange curd
and surround it
with ginger biscuit stepping stones
for a giant rock garden
featuring almost 200 individual items.
[Rahul] I have to make 2 types of cake.
For the chocolate soil
I've to make praline dust.
I have to fill the choux as well
and then make the plants.
I cannot afford to waste
any single moment.
[clattering]
Ouch.
Wait. Stop.
I don't know what happened, I just...
How did it happen even?
[Sandi] Rahul's storage jar
has shattered from the heat.
Great. Just literally
the whole thing exploded.
I don't really want to use
any of these because there might be glass.
[Sandi] The production team will now
have to throw away
anything that could contain broken glass.
-[Rahul] So I'm not using that.
-Do you think it went in here?
It can be, to be honest.
Let's get rid of everything.
I think... is that okay?
[Sandi] Rahul will now have to start
his final challenge all over again.
I'm going to be so behind now.
[Noel] With so much
broken glass on his bench...
I can't really use
any of the hazelnuts, either.
[Noel] ...Rahul still hasn't been able
to properly restart his final Showstopper.
I'm just going to be literally
20 minutes out of schedule now.
Well, Kim-Joy and Ruby certainly seem in
control and know what they're going to do.
Poor old Rahul got himself
in a bit of a tizz.
Can I have a measuring jug, please?
He's pushing himself
maybe a little bit too much,
because if he carries on baking
in the mind-set that he is...
-[Prue] I know, he's scared.
-...I think he's gonna be in trouble.
I just need to calm
myself down, that's it.
-Rahul. How's it going?
-Hello.
This is a sign from God
that I need to stop baking.
[Sandi] Are you behind?
[Rahul] Massively.
Can I kiss you on the cheek?
Yeah, that's fine yeah.
Are you going to kiss on the forehead
as well, I could like that,
because like you're telling me
it's like a lot. Thank you.
[Sandi] Whilst Rahul has yet to get
his first element in the oven...
I just need to step on it now.
[Sandi] ...Atlantis is already
beginning to emerge.
My spice biscuit dough
for my building and my steps.
Now I'm going in for my shortbread.
Just a bit of food colouring in there.
I didn't want something to be too dull,
it's meant to be magical.
This one's done.
Everything was so, so delayed.
I should've finished all of these by now.
Hot, hot, hot. That's that done.
Putting the cake inside now.
You calmed down now?
I'm really relying on that chocolate cake.
If that's not okay,
I'm... I have to do something.
[Noel] Paul and Prue have agreed
to allow Rahul an extra 15 minutes
to complete his Showstopper.
You'll be fine.
[Noel] Exactly the same amount
of time he lost.
But it might not be enough.
[exhales]
For his rock garden, Rahul needs to find
time to bake not just one,
but two different types of cake.
I'm making joconde sponge.
I just have to crack on, that's it.
Noel, what are you doing in Paul's chair?
I'm just practising being
a bit more judgemental.
Oh, okay. Bakers, you have three hours.
That wasn't a very good time call.
Wow, is that it?
That's the judgemental thing?
This is my biscuit well
and it's going to have caramel in it.
These cakes are all something wrong.
I think I've put too little sugar in them.
Trying to multitask at the minute.
So I've got shortbread in the oven,
the choux pastries are going on here.
I've got my sponges.
I don't feel like I'm massively behind
but I just need to keep the pace up
and not start slacking.
[Noel] Whilst the judges have demanded
at least three perfectly baked elements,
the finalists also have to juggle
the creation of dozens
of decorations and fillings.
This is the mascarpone cream cheese icing.
Just a bit of orange flavouring.
So that's my lemon crème pat
which will be my filling for my choux.
I've got lemon extract and zest.
I'm just going to make
the orange curd now.
This is blue food colouring.
So this is going to be
for the slimy old lake.
So this is my blueberry dipping sauce.
Have I got enough elements?
20 stages is bonkers.
[Sandi] But not
everyone's final to-do list...
There is no point in me looking at it.
It's not gonna change anything.
[Sandi] ...is proving impossible.
Oh, wowzies.
-It's like a big puzzle.
-Big jigsaw puzzle.
-You've got all your stuff out though.
-I know.
-You're ahead of the curve.
-I just like to start assembling, yeah.
You've gotta assemble Atlantis.
No, but I love the fact that
you just don't care and you go whimsy.
-You go, I'm doing whimsical stuff.
-Yeah.
But, Ruby's doing unicorns.
Do you think she's slightly
stepping on your whimsy?
-No.
-I don't really think of Ruby
as being whimsical.
-No?
-More stroppy.
Stroppy.
[laughing]
I'm not having stroppy.
Stroppy Ruby and whimsical Kim-Joy.
Rahul, one word to describe yourself.
Depressing.
[Noel laughing] Depressing.
[Sandi] Ninety minutes remaining.
That's done, that's done.
Once this cake is constructed
I'm gonna start doing my mountain
and then everything
starts coming together.
A good thing if you're doing a ruin
if anything looks a bit rustic
you can say you intended it that way.
[Noel] But whilst both Kim-Joy
and Ruby assemble their landscapes...
You guys saw nothing.
[Noel] ...planting the rock garden
has yet to begin.
They're a little bit over because
I forgot to take them out but it's okay,
I have to soak them
with sponge syrup anyway.
I'm just doing the biscuits now.
That's for the pond. It's just too much.
I think it's just going to be
Rahul's big mess.
Going to start making crème pat.
Do they look like ruins?
Is that me?
Gonna start doing my choux
in a second, filling them.
Think a little crack
makes it look more realistic.
When the choux is in the oven
I can actually start doing other things.
Oh, I don't like this nozzle at all.
Oh my God,
all the heat coming out.
-Ta-da!
-Yay!
-Atlantis Island. Perfect.
-I love it.
-There you go sweetie.
-Amazing.
-That's okay. Finally I've been useful.
-So I'll present that with it.
Don't look at the back of it,
it says pain on the back
but don't look at that.
[laughs] Pain.
Oh no, no, no, no, no.
Completely lost count of when
I put the choux pastry in.
Please, please, please,
don't let me make the choux pastry again.
Bakers, you have one hour left.
One hour.
-I've gotta go, I've gotta present QI.
-Okay.
Oh, I've got to breathe.
So I just need to pipe it
within the lines.
Oh no, it's started collapsing now.
Oh please don't collapse.
Please don't collapse.
Do you think that looks stable enough?
These are my little mushrooms.
So there's white chocolate
and a mint chantilly...
I need to airbrush the building,
make it look a bit mouldy.
Okay, I'm going to put together now.
Trying to multitask at the minute.
I've got caramel going on here.
[blows]
Doing some tuilles. Just like sea weedy.
That's the call for my choux. Okay.
I'll get it done, I'll push.
I think they should be all right.
It's just isomalt over ice.
Oh.
Sorry, I thought that was about
to burst into flames.
It forms a thing,
it kinda looks like coral.
Actually I think I can still use it,
anyway. How much time have I got?
You have 15 minutes left.
I think now is the time
when I can put the choux's on.
The tricky tail end.
I do like that seahorse.
This is my little snow top mountains.
What colour is a seahorse?
Oh no, this mushroom is melting.
Some edible flowers.
Very, very hot. I don't know
how I'm gonna get this
into the shape of a bowl
to put my dipping sauce in.
Salted caramel, still a little warm.
Ow.
Oh my finger, I don't know what to do.
How much time?
[Noel] Five minutes left.
This is gin.
Sorry.
Oops. All the treasure's spilling out.
Argh.
I'm going to make some
long cacti also. Oopsie.
I really wanna make those unicorns.
It is wobbly but it will hold.
What am I gonna do with this sauce?
I literally don't know what
I'm doing, I'm just doing it.
You know what I'm gonna do?
Oh, my thumb.
Ruby, Kim-Joy your time is up.
-Are you happy?
-Come on.
[Sandi] Rahul, you have 15 minutes.
[exhales]
It's gonna be tight.
Oh, I can't watch.
I'm gonna put the curd in very, very soon.
Okay.
So, that's an orange curd.
I would like to put it
when the chocolate is set.
Uh, I'll just put it now.
Can't find a curd knife, great.
[inaudible]
[Sandi] One minute.
Just thinking if I am missing
some elements or not.
This is just to give
like a green algae look.
This is gonna be literally
a, very, very speedy pipe.
Great.
Rahul, time is up.
-Come on, Rahul.
-Come on.
[applause]
[Kim-Joy] Well done.
-Sorry.
-Well done.
They've left home.
What are we gonna do now?
I don't know.
Oh, well. Shall we convert
their rooms into offices?
Yeah, let's do that.
Outside the tent, the bakers' family
and friends have arrived,
along with a few familiar faces.
It's only been a week but I feel like
I've been gone forever. This is so nice.
Kids are really loving it, they can't
believe they're there by the tent.
[Manon] So, I'm cheering
for the girls today.
So we have Rubes, the queen of Technicals.
[Dan] But I think Kim-Joy's got it.
She's got the knowledge,
she's got the execution,
she's got this really unique
artistry as well.
Rahul, I do not know where, but he's got
a magic wand that he keeps pulling out.
If Rahul wins
he probably won't believe it.
He'll probably still think he's not
good enough to have won it.
Absolutely Team Ruby all the way.
Good luck whoever. Whoever, I don't know.
[Noel] It's judgement time
for the showstopping edible landscapes.
Ruby, would you like to bring
your showstopper up please?
Yikes.
-Shall I help you?
-Yes, please.
Ruby, can you tell us all
about your landscape, please?
I have done a magical landscape.
You have a choux mountain,
filled with lemon crème pat
and there's also
a blueberry dipping sauce.
There is a passionfruit cake
and a unicorn.
I'm very impressed you've managed to make
the choux pastry look really rocky.
I'd like this to have been made.
I was making it out of isomalt
and I suffered a few burns at the end.
[Paul] Shall we try
this biscuit first?
[Ruby] So it's cardamom
and orange buttercream.
Very nice, crisp shortbread.
Hmm, it's got a nice flavour to that.
It's buttery, that's how it should be.
[Prue] That's very good.
[Paul] What were these mushrooms?
It did have a mint chantilly
and there was a raspberry gel
and they did look really effective
at the start, but it was just heat.
Beautiful flavour. That mint
really comes through, doesn't it?
-[Prue] Hmm, it is really delicious.
-Thank you.
[Paul] Beautiful sponge.
[Prue] Isn't it?
And the flavour with the passionfruit
goes really well together.
[Prue] Ooh, that is lovely.
It's quite bitter.
I think that was the caramel.
You've overcooked it.
[Prue] But the crème pat's good
and some nice choux pastry.
It's just a pity about the caramel.
I think that overall the idea is good,
the flavour's very tasty.
-Thank you very much.
Rahul, please bring up your Showstopper.
Would you like a hand?
Yes, please. Thank you.
Rahul, tell us about your Showstopper.
So this Showstopper is my interpretation
of a rock garden.
There is a chocolate cake there,
within which is buttercream,
orange flavoured
and there is a choux mound
on the top of that.
And the other one is a lemon joconde
and then like a pond
is basically coloured orange curd
and the outside is choux pastry
filled with cream mousseline
and a little touch of cardamom.
And then all around there is a chocolate
soil and then some small little biscuits
and like a stepping stone.
Sorry, I just talk a lot.
It's quite impressive,
there's a bit of a height to it.
It does look very natural
as well, doesn't it?
It does. But I can't say
it makes my mouth water.
I think it's the sludge
puts you off a bit.
[Prue] Just remind me
what the stepping stones are made of?
Orange and ginger biscuit.
Dip it into the sludge.
-That's delicious.
-It is absolutely delicious.
That biscuit melts in the mouth.
And the biscuit is very well judged
with the curd.
[Paul] The choux buns
look hideous, don't they?
So if I open my mouth wide enough,
I will be getting praline, choux,
cardamom and some caramel on the top?
Tiny bit.
[Sandi] There we go.
You do get the cardamom and it is...
it's juicy inside.
-Is it good?
-Delicious.
It doesn't, it doesn't taste
what it looks like.
And it all comes into your taste buds
one after another and it's lovely.
[Prue] Oh, look at that.
[Rahul] This is lemon joconde and...
[Prue] Joconde.
...Italian meringue buttercream.
[Paul] That's a lovely joconde.
It's well-baked. You see how aerated
that sponge is
but the overall flavour's excellent.
Right, let's take a look
at this chocolate cake.
Oh.
If I hadn't had the joconde first,
I would say that was an exceptional cake.
But it's a good cake.
The orange
with the chocolate is delicious.
And that cake is perfectly baked.
You are so clever
at thinking things through
and your flavours are so good.
Well done. Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
[blows]
Kim-Joy, would you like to bring your
Showstopper up please?
Do you want some help?
[Kim-Joy] Yes, please?
[Noel] Okay. Have you got it?
[Prue] Wow.
So, I've done the Lost City of Atlantis.
[Paul] So we've got ginger biscuit,
we've got ginger cake and the...
[Kim-Joy] Caramel.
[Paul] Caramel.
[Kim-Joy] And the praline, yeah.
[Prue] And praline.
Well I think it's very original
and it's very colourful
and some of the work
is really quite delicate.
I'd like to have seen more height
with the cake, 'cause it's quite flat.
It's really like Jamaican
sticky ginger cake.
[Paul] The ginger cake's delicious,
it's well baked.
I do question the flavour of the orange
with that ginger.
Did you use zest in that?
Extract from the zest.
-[Paul] It's extract?
-So it's the oils.
If it was zest it would be
much more citrusy
and a bit more tang to it.
Nice caramel.
It's a nice ginger biscuit.
But the problem is, I think you would've
been wise to have done a different flavour
because the ginger cake is so gingery
that the biscuit is a bit
of a disappointment after it.
I think it's a missed opportunity.
What you've got is a biscuit,
a ginger cake and a praline,
blitzed it and put that down as sand.
I think you're missing a trick,
I think you could've done
something more with this.
It just falls a little bit flat.
Thank you, Kim-Joy.
[blows]
[Sandi] The largest crowd
that the competition has ever seen
are waiting for Prue
and Paul's final decision.
Well, we came into the Showstopper
with Kim-Joy just fractionally ahead.
[Prue] I think
she played it a little bit safe
because it wasn't nearly as much
as Ruby or Rahul did.
That style of his,
it's quite rough and ready
but because it was a landscape,
it fell into his brief.
Oh, man.
[Paul] But I loved
Ruby's passionfruit cake.
That sponge was delicious. So light,
and the biscuit was good as well.
But do we have an outright winner?
We need to look at the three challenges
together and they all did very, very well.
I've got someone
that's just stuck their neck out in front.
For me, one of the bakers
made the most consistent bakes
and another absolutely shone on design.
Well good luck to the two of you
'cause there's several
hundred people out there
with flaming torches and pitchforks,
so good luck.
[laughs]
-That's just your family, innit?
-Oh yeah, yeah.
[cheering]
[Noel] Before the winner is announced,
the finalists can at last
join their family and friends.
Oh.
I think week one I said to Jon, I'll be
really happy if I got to week four.
Hiya, how are you doing?
And I'm here.
Hopefully, I've done enough.
-I'm very nervous, Liz.
-You're all right, sweetheart.
Whatever happens I know
I have to accept it, so.
I hope I've done enough of everything.
Have you made all that mess on your pinny?
Yeah.
I've been a bit of a, a comeback kid.
-You okay?
-Yeah, I'm gonna end up crying.
No, don't cry, don't cry.
And the fact that they found it tasty
and Paul liked the cake.
That's why I bake.
I bake because people love to eat it
and it makes people happy.
This is Rahul, he's the other baker.
Hiya, nice to meet you.
I am more than happy with, with that.
[cheering]
Thank you all for coming.
Please could I ask our three wonderful
finalists to come forward
and can we have a round of applause
for Rahul, Ruby and Kim-Joy.
[applause]
I love you all.
Thank you.
Now, I wish it could be all three of you.
You've been amazing and I love you all.
But unfortunately
there can only be one winner.
And the winner is...
[exhales]
Rahul.
[cheering]
Thank you. I don't know.
I can't believe it. There you go.
-Good luck to you.
-Thank you. Thank you.
-You did it.
I did.
-This is for you.
-Thank you.
-Well done, mate.
-Your mother would be very proud of you.
-I know. Thank you.
-What are you gonna say to her now?
-I don't know.
-Hey?
Are you all right?
Yeah. I, I don't really know.
I talk so much most of the time
and I just don't know what to say now.
Hey guys, what did I tell you?
What did I tell you?
I think the amazing thing about Rahul
and why I'm so proud of him
is that he came in unconfident
but he just kept going
and he never reined in his ambition,
he always tried to do a bit more
than everybody else. And it paid off.
He's one of those characters that
you'll miss when you're not with him.
You know,
his intensity sometimes is amazing
and he's so good at what he does.
I don't think he realises
still how good he actually is.
And I think that's
what's magic about Rahul.
Rahul!
[cheering]
Look at your people, Rahul.
Yeah, thank you.
I am so, so pleased for Rahul,
but I can just tell people
I was in the final. It speaks for itself.
[cheering]
[Ruby] I've been working with
11 other insane bakers.
It has been, hands down,
the best experience of my life
and I, I would not change it at all.
I can't believe it. My God.
I really don't know how to explain.
I don't know what to say.
I don't know whether to laugh,
to cry or what. I don't know.
I just feel like I need
to talk with my mum.
[line ringing]
-Hello?
-Hello, Ma.
[speaking Bengali]
So, she's really happy.
Just give this to Manon for a minute,
let her hold it.
-Okay. Okay, you ready?
-What are we doing?
-We're gonna pylon.
-Oh, my God! Oh no. No, it's fine.
-Ah, come on.
-Why you gonna... I'm going to fall...
I'm going to fall down. Oh, my God!
[cheering]
Okay, okay.